Louis Jensen's Game Plan

Interesting variant: I thought that the Circus breakout game was very
interesting because the "ball" that was shot into the air was affected
by gravity and did not shoot all the way to the top every time. The way
this was creatively done with people bouncing on the see saw was very
well done. However, I don't plan to implement a gravity element in my
game because I want the ball to go all the way to the top and bounce
off the sides and ceiling while maintaining constant speed, so I can
have power ups to change the ball speed.

Levels: The three levels I am planning to build will each have more
blocks than the last. Each will also have a different configuration
of blocks. These are three outlines for the levels that I may use.

    Line:      xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
               xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

    Diamond:          x
                   xxxxxxx
                xxxxxxxxxxxxxx
                   xxxxxxx
                      x

    Clusters:    xxx                 xxx
                 xxx       xxx       xxx
                           xxx  xxx
                      xxx       xxx
                      xxx
                             xxxx
                             xxxx


Blocks: The first block I will be using is the simple block that is
cleared after one hit. I will also use blocks that take multiple hits
to clear. I plan to make these multi hit blocks different colors that
correspond with the number of hits necessary to clear them, changing
each time they are hit. I also plan to use power up blocks that drop
power up token when cleared. If the player catches the token on the
paddle the power up will be activated. I'm also thinking about using
blocks of varying sizes, but would like to test it and see how it
affects game play before I decide.

Power Ups: Power ups will be dropped from the power up blocks. One of
the power ups will make the paddle wider for a specified time. I am
planning to make the width double and have it last for about 10 seconds.
Another one of the power ups will add a bonus ball to the game. This bonus
ball will not count against the life count if dropped so its will only
contribute by hitting more blocks and it will last until it is dropped.
Another power up I will add will slow the ball down by 50%. If there is
a bonus ball on the screen it will also slow down.

Cheat Keys: One of the cheat keys will clear the current level and skip
to the next level. Another one of the cheat keys will add lives to the
player during the current level.

Something Extra: An extra feature that I plan to implement will be blocks
that move around. This will probably not come into effect until the last
level because it should be the hardest. I think that this adds something
to the game that is exciting for the players and is an interesting design
element. I would have to figure out a way to make the blocks move independently
and ensure that they did not collide with each other.

